[Music]
okay welcome to the demand generation
movement and this time it's my pleasure
to welcome sam dummy the sales director
and co-owner of web choice
and also the host of the business growth
show podcast great to have you sam
hey adam thanks for having me on man
looking forward to having a chat today
yeah it's awesome you know i've been
seeing you for a long time now in my
feed especially talking about website
about seo and all of those goodies right
and
i haven't to be honest heard that much
about i'm i'm on episode 14 now i
believe on this podcast and i don't
think i've heard anyone talking about
these kind of topics really so it's it's
really great to have you here and kind
of deep dive into the seo world and to
the
website world and how that kind of fits
in with with an overall revenue strategy
or something like that um
but starting off like you're obviously
an agency owner and a podcast host um i
would like to understand how you look at
like demand generation or revenue
marketing what is that to you
yeah yeah yeah so
i guess until
maybe one or two years ago i didn't even
think of what i was doing as demand
generation i just thought of it as a
long term way to build brand awareness
build up some credibility for myself and
our company web choice and
make some connections maybe get some
sales leads maybe generate some cash in
the bank generate some revenue from it
really so until i started listening to
kind of podcasts like chris walker's um
state of demand gen and similar i didn't
really think of it as that so it's more
like for example when i started this my
podcast business growth show two or so
years ago
didn't even have that in my mind i just
thought
initially i'm going to interview some
people that i want to learn about
over time i adapted it and started
interviewing kind of ideal clients and
people we were working with and built
relationships and started generating
revenue for web choice and started doing
solo episodes and vice versa kind of
posting on linkedin again when i started
posting on linkedin like i don't know a
few three or so years ago i just thought
of it as a long-term way to get in front
of target customers share some useful
tips in my case about websites and seo
and hopefully build up some trust land
some clients off the back of it it
wasn't until probably the last year
maybe two years i actually thought of it
as demand generation as that term
becomes more and more popular
um
but yeah that's i guess that's my
initial take on it but we can dive into
that deeper as you see fit yeah so i
guess you you were early in the sense
that you were working with it before it
actually was a topic to be reckoned with
i guess
yeah i mean like you say the term has
been around a long long time but it
wasn't really something that i used as
as a day to day just because i was kind
of doing it but without knowing if that
makes sense
yeah exactly and i mean like the brand
awareness term as an example which
people might argue be a similar thing
has been around for forever right
and it's really cool that you
as like a an owner of an agency saw that
that was a real
you know a real possibility and the real
chance because it takes time to build up
you know i think you have
as you on your personal account have
over 20k followers right and stuff like
that bill though a bit up over time and
how did you start when you started
posting on linkedin what was kind of the
initial goal with it compared to maybe
now
you probably don't want to know
well when i i can't remember when i
started a linkedin account but i started
a linkedin account probably about 10 or
so years ago and probably like most
people when i first started linkedin i
thought it was just an online cv so i
literally just thought i'm just going to
put what i do and this is my job and
then kind of left it to collect dust and
then as
as i kind of because i started off as a
sales rep so when i was a sales exec
then i used it just purely to pitch my
product so i was like buy my and
then started spamming people on dms like
trying to quote people and get get
people to buy my stuff and book calls
and then over time probably about i
don't know three or so years ago when
kind of social selling and all that good
stuff and the likes of daniel disney and
people that are well known on the
linkedin space and social selling
circles i started learning that there
was kind of a better way to go on
linkedin and kind of raise awareness and
share daily posts to actually
build up trust around what you do how
you help and kind of share useful tips
and insights do you feel like do you
feel like that is something that have
not only helped you personally but also
the company grow
definitely i mean linkedin right now for
example we don't do any linkedin page we
have done in the past but linkedin
organic for webchoice is our third
top channel for generating inbound
revenue
so it just shows that it's it's a
powerful channel to generate inbound
leads in revenue for sure yeah because i
think there are a lot of companies
seeing you know the potential of social
selling but maybe even more seeing the
potential of building your personal
brand and things like that
um and to be honest i think um you know
i'm working in marketing i think in
general marketers have more of a there
are more marketers probably that builds
their personal brand and fewer sales
reps that kind of dare to do it i think
there is a
huge potential for sales rep to start
building their
you know personal brand a lot more um
yeah yeah i'd agree i think
it
i think it also comes down to a few
things because i've talked about this on
previous shows there's a lot of sales
reps that are extremely successful and
don't even touch linkedin because they'd
rather prospect nurture accounts get out
there and get deals over the loan which
is fair enough but vice versa there's
sales reps that are out there because
they're they're sharing content each day
they're providing useful tips around
their industry they're engaging with
relevant connections they're perhaps
getting involved in direct messages and
all that good stuff
and that they're probably getting a
steady flow of inbound through that on
top of their sales activity so i suppose
it it depends what you want to do but i
think long term as
things like people become harder to
contact via their cell phones by their
mobiles via email i think having a
personal brand building that trust over
the next few years is going to become
more and more important
and another you know i guess source of
of inbound or sorts of revenue that that
a lot of companies are usually working
with is seo right that is kind of the
main topic we are trying to touch upon
here yeah so can you just you know
begin with just why do you think import
like seo is important to have as a focus
and yeah let's just start with that
yeah so seo why is it important so first
and foremost i mean if you're going to
consider seo then your your company
ideally needs a clear
value proposition you need a clear
offering you need a niche in which you
operate so if you try and selling
everything to everyone seo is going to
be super hard work because your markets
can be massive so ideally you want a
category
where you've got a target audience
you've got a product you've got a niche
now the reason seo is decent is because
the chances are people that are in
buying mode
are going to be searching for what you
do
so i know you talk about adam a lot um
of demand generation demand creation
so building awareness over time for
people that don't need your stuff now
but when they do your position as an
expert but
there's still a decent chunk in most
markets where people are ready to buy
right now and so they'll search on
google let's say you're a software
provider perhaps they'll search perhaps
you swipe cell crm best crm for small
business or best crm for accountancy
company
if they're searching that or term
similar to that
they they're high intent buyer they've
typed it in google if your website comes
up in the top few organic listings on
google they'll go to your website and
they're probably going to request a demo
or to speak to sales so if you can get
your website positioned in the organic
search through seo you've got a good
chance of generating a steady flow of
inbound sales opportunities so that's
why it's so useful because you can
capture people that are in that buying
mode right now or perhaps they're higher
in the funnel perhaps second
consideration stage so they're comparing
your offering to another offering or
maybe they're very very early stage so
they're looking at initial tips like how
to do something or best ways to do x or
what to consider when doing why
so the good thing about seo is you can
capture buyers right now
we can capture one slightly higher up in
the sales funnel to kind of build up
some trust and reputation over time and
so that's a that's a starting point for
it janet i guess seo is also something
that have become more and more
competitive over time right especially
in these
highly competitive categories like crm
to try and own the crm talk back in
the us or the uk that's uh
that's a lot of work probably um
and i guess that's also like
i
i'm by no means an seo expert or expert
of course i've been working with it a
lot in my role as head of demandian but
it's
i look at
seo quite simply
mainly because it helps me to kind of
create content and all of that but i
know you think it's more you know i i
did a post at one point about it
my super easy simple playbook that i i
use and i know that you are you know
seeing seo
a bit more complex i guess or that it's
like it is a lot more to it and can you
kind of elaborate a bit on that
yeah i mean i don't like to over
complicate things either so i like to
keep things as simple as possible and
the truth is this i guess there's a
couple ways of looking at adam so if you
if you're working in a super niche
market and maybe you're
there's not many competitors and maybe
even your location or region specific
then you could rank pretty fast on seo
so you haven't got many competitors so
there's basically two main elements to
seo you've got what's called on-page seo
or on-site seo so everything you do on
your website and then you've got
off-page or off-site seo everything you
do off of your website so off off page
so it might be things like building
backlinks distributing content articles
on separate sites to build up your
what's called domain authority so
typically if you start an seo campaign
one of the first things you want to do
is
research the search terms or the
keywords you actually want your website
to be found for so like you mentioned in
the crm space if you're just targeting
crm in general
so competitive man you're going against
things like hubspot salesforce you've
got next to no chance unless you've got
like 250 grand a month to spend on
marketing you're going to be screwed um
so
you want to you want to probably want to
niche down especially if you're going to
be in something in the crm space you
want to go into like hyper focus
categories so if you focus on small
businesses if you focus namely on
financial companies you might want to
look at like small business crm for
financial companies then you've got
hyper targeted search term it's also
what's called a long tail keyword so if
someone's typing in they've they're
quite high intent because they've
searched for something quite juicy quite
specific
so you want to
do some good research around your
offering
around what you actually want to collect
clients for um you can also talk to kind
of existing customers find out what
they're searching and things like that
and then you can grab tools like semrush
or hey ahrefs that give you detailed
stats on how many searches these
keywords get per month what the
competitiveness of them and a bunch of
other things um
so that's one of the first points kind
of nailing down what you actually want
your site to be found for then you need
to do that on page seo and there's
there's a lot lot to this so things like
looking at your website from a technical
standpoint so looking at things like how
fast your website is your page speed
great tool called page speed insights
you can use where you can see how fast
your site is on mobile and desktop
and really important for your conversion
rates if you've got a slow site you're
going to piss people off and they're
going to head to a competitor and and
also it is a google ranking factor and
other things like your technical build
your site so your menu navigation
structure your page structure your page
titles your heading tags your meta
descriptions and titles that are shown
in the search engine results
and another simple thing is a lot of
businesses just just go for just a two
three page site but one of the
advantages to having quite a detailed
multi-page site
is if you've got
pages for example let's go back to crm
if you've got pages for perhaps each
industry you help or each core feature
that you offer
they're all searchable right so if each
of these pages is really informative it
says that this is this is the breakdown
this feature this is a problem it solves
these are some answers to common
questions around it or common objections
we face and it kind of covers all angles
one you're providing really useful
content and two that's searchable and so
rather than trying to jam everything on
one or two pages if you're really kind
of formatting your website making it as
useful and as helpful as possible that's
a big seo ranking factor as well um so
those are just some basic what's called
on-page seo points
and then after that you've kind of got
off-site seo which you can dive into as
well kind of building back links
distributing content and things like
that so would you say before we go into
that would you say like let's say you're
a company like this that want to rank on
a on a more long tail crm word high
intent maybe um would you say it's more
important with with on paid stuff or the
off page stuff or is it like 50 50.
it's yeah it's it's kind of a balance
because
like i was referring to earlier if you
if you're if there's if you've done some
research and perhaps you even do a
google search for it so let's say you do
something like small business rm for
financial companies or something similar
and then you see there's not really many
relevant results here on google in fact
the only ones that are we look at their
content it's really thin there's not
much copy there it's not very helpful
and then the chances are you might be
able to outrank that quite fast because
the competition is low the content that
they've got is pretty poor pretty thin
so just by putting together something
meaty something helpful something that's
going to cover all angles of your
product your offering answer common
questions then you might be able to rank
it but if you do some research and there
is a lot of competition
what you what you want to do first and
foremost is look for angles that you can
like i was talking about then out out do
the competition in terms of the content
on page and the structure
yes do that as well as you can and kind
of look for angles to beat the
competition but without links going to
your content it's going to be hard to
outrank them because those sites have
probably got some authority they've
probably been around a while they've
probably already got links to them from
other sites as well so without those
kind of backlinks coming in you're going
to find it quite difficult to
to outrank some competitors and that is
like something you can also see in these
kind of tools like you mentioned like
sam russian okay these are probably the
amount of backlinks from these high
authority pages you need to be able to
even rank on this
yeah and how would you let's say you
have created like a
a more extensive content piece than
what's already out there how would you
then
start thinking about building it off
page
yeah yeah yeah so there's there's a
number of ways that you can do it
depending on i guess the resources that
you've got in-house or if you don't have
an seo team in-house then if you're
using an agency for example so
let's look at some free ways first and
foremost i actually wrote a link in a
post about this the other day so there's
actually quite an unusual quite an
interesting way to get back links and
which i explored a little bit so you can
actually
do podcast guesting is one of the most
cost effective ways to do it
so there's actually a website called
chartable and there's a bunch of other
ones and what you can do is you can go
on to a site like chartable you can
click on to view the charts and you can
filter them via location and then you
filter it by category so you choose the
industry or the category that you want
to be in so in our case it might be
marketing
someone else's case finance sports
whatever
look at the top 100 podcasts and then
you get whoever from your company is an
industry expert that can actually is
comfortable speaking on these to cold
pitch these hosts of the podcast that
are taking guests whether that's a
linkedin personalized message an email
outreach whatever you want to do
something tailored to make something
personalized i watch your show i enjoyed
x would love to talk about y and z i
think i can add value et cetera
go through the top 50 top 100 you're
going to get some invites
do the show with them do a great show
have a call to action to your business
at the end so it's good pr and then ask
them to do an article on your site on
their site sorry after the show which
they'll typically do a detail page with
a podcast release and ask them for a
link back to your page whatever you're
focusing on so they'll get and a lot of
those sites are gonna be reputable and
they'll do a back link to whatever
article you want them or whatever detail
page you're trying to rank that's one
way
secondly there are a bunch of um kind of
free network sites that you can post
blog articles on around wordpress at
blogging sites and so on so they're
quite cheap quite free ways to kind of
post your offsite articles and build
them on or thirdly um you go down the
page route so unless you know
well i say thirdly and fourthly you've
got kind of press release networks where
they're news article sites article
submission sites where you can literally
reach out to the
moderators of these sites and you can
ideally this is where you want some
articles some content that's got unique
stats unique data that they don't have
already so you can basically say
hi we've got this unique stat around
this industry i think it'd be
interesting for your audience would you
consider having an article on your post
it's more likely to get you picked up
but you're still gonna have to reach out
to quite a lot of different articles
submission sites um or fourthly you can
there's a paid option there's a lot of
article kind of when you're talking
about domain authority typically you're
going to want something with a decent
domain authority to like 40 50 60 plus
and then you can reach out to certain
sites that allow submissions and
typically you're going to pay to get
those involved and usually they want
high quality content as well so they'll
check your piece you'll make a payment
and then they'll they'll take your
article on and build you a link
so would you say because i think i read
a lot a lot of different opinions on
this um lately at least like
for you backlink is the backlinks are
still like one of the major ranking
factors would you say
i think like i said i think there's
still
if you're in a really competitive space
and you want to rank something
that's it's going to be quite useful to
your business that's gonna generate a
hefty amount of inbound once you get
that search term because there's a lot
of search traffic for it
then like i say just writing the content
alone is not going to cut it unless
you've got some high quality links going
back to that content you're never going
to rank it um even if you do write one
of the best pieces because the chances
are the monsters in your industry are
already up there and you've got the
links there but if you're something
perhaps that's kind of got medium term
difficulty or more niche difficulty yes
you might be able to rank it without
links
but that's
that's kind of my viewpoint on it really
yeah yeah that's a good point and what
would you say or like
the most you know obviously you take on
a lot of clients and help them with seo
and all of that what would you say are
the most like common faults or pitfalls
that you see companies because most
companies work um or at least they think
they work with seo i guess um what would
you say are some of those
yeah i rant about this quite a lot on
linkedin so there's a lot of things that
annoy me i think one of the main things
is when web agencies say that websites
are fully seoed and all they did was
install a plugin like yoast or similar
on a wordpress site and just clicked a
load of autobot options and said it was
done
when the truth is like we were talking
about earlier there's a lot of things
that go into keyword research making
sure you're actually targeting the
search terms that are going to drive
inbound revenue for your business
doing on-page seo really well so making
sure that your website loads lightning
quick on mobile pc making sure your
website's got a mobile friendly design
as well as desktop design
making sure you're basically thinking
thinking it from a customer point of
view your website is helpful as useful
as possible so you've got pages
dedicated to each of the main offerings
you have around your service around
industries you focus on
maybe you've got a resources hub with
blog articles with press releases with
podcasts videos etc that bolster
bolster kind of the content allow you to
post articles and all that good stuff
and
making sure kind of technical seos
things like metadata page titles all in
shape you've got seo friendly urls
around what you offer so making sure all
of that is on point is
quite rarely done to be honest a lot of
websites we inherit that we take on that
those basics aren't sorted and then kind
of looking at an off-page off-site seo
approach really so a lot of those things
quite often are neglected
so if a company say would like have
their they haven't really done their
on-page work would you say it's
impossible even to the right even though
the content might be good is it you know
it's hard i guess
it's going to be a lot more difficult to
rank and the thing is off page i mean
sorry on-page seo doesn't necessarily
take that much time
and there's a lot of kind of free things
online on my podcast for example there's
a bunch of tips on other people's
podcasts around seo and digital
marketing you can learn it it's not like
massively difficult so as long as you
get the basics right
and your website's not a sham you've got
search friendly urls for your page
structure you've got
clearly dedicated pages you're following
some of the basics your website doesn't
look like a potato and it loads nice and
quick um
yeah so as long as you follow those
things
then you're not going to be in too bad
of shape
no that's great and as one of the last
questions for you i would like to know
more about what's actually driving
revenue for your company like in 2022 do
you have any like specific
strategies tactic or channels that have
worked really well during this year
because i think everyone is searching
for this next uh
their next thing right
yeah yeah yeah
i can i can tell you exactly what we do
so our number one source for inbound
right now is seo naturally we practice
what we preach so we've got a bunch of
terms that drive traffic to our site and
get leads
secondly at the moment is a mix of paid
ads
so we do we were using some of the
review sites so some of the sponsored
sites and some paid search
and then thirdly we've got linkedin
organic
so
i post daily tips on linkedin i've been
doing for a couple of years literally
if you're not doing it yet just start
building that up because just by posting
kind of helpful stuff around your
industry to position yourself as someone
that knows what they're talking about is
is quite straightforward once you get
get the hang of it um
and then after that those are our top
three and then after that you've got
things like referrals
the podcast so our podcast kind of
generates some some revenue through
partnerships through guests we've had on
and through listeners and all that stuff
and then i've got the email list as well
to kind of generate some some inquiries
over time so those are probably the
the top five or six that we're that
we're involved in
cool
it was so great to have you sam and
before we we end you can you can do any
shout out you want or
describe your services or whatever you
you would like to
yeah i appreciate that thanks adam so
yeah i host a podcast business growth
show marketing podcast so we interview
experts in marketing and i share website
and seo tips so you can check that out
um if you want to connect with me on
linkedin at sam dunning otherwise if
you're perhaps tired of seeing
competitors ahead of you on google
search stealing all your clients and
traffic or perhaps you're investing in
marketing but your website's failing to
convert your visitors into a steady flow
of qualified sales leads then give us a
shout it's
webchoiceuk.com
come on thank you so much tim
cheers adam